Uh the town of Andover Board of special
meeting uh Monday, this October 27th,
2025, 9:20 p.m. This uh this is being
recorded
>> 9:20 a.m.
>> 9:20 a.m. I apologize.
>> The board of select and special meeting.
>> What did I say?
>> Said board of special meeting.
>> Oh, well, let's start over. We'll do it
again.
>> All right.
>> All right. So, I'm going to call over to
the town of Andover Board of Selectmen
special meeting Monday, October 27th,
9:21 a.m. And our first order of
business is the pledge of allegiance. I
pledge allegiance to the flag of the
United States of America
>> to the republic for which it stands, one
nation under God, indivisible, with
liberty and justice for all.
>> Okay. Our first item is public speak.
just here to watch. Thank you.
>> Okay. Um All right. Uh items on the
agenda are discussion and action on
appointment of temporary town
administrator. Uh the candidate
interviewers, we have Jim Balano who's
on uh by Zoom. Uh Jim in this room, you
have Jeff Murray, who you met previously
last Thursday, Carol Lee, select person,
Scott Pson, select person, and myself.
Uh on the screen, you have Anne Cre
who's also one of the select people. and
we have Scott Soyette who's from the
public. The Andover link is Kate who was
nice enough to start our meeting and
then we're all in this room. So, um just
for everybody's information,
Jim was uh referred to uh Eric by Jim
Rivers who is currently in charge of
MECOG. Jim Rivers was previously the
town manager uh for Windham um or city
manager. I don't actually know his
title. Jim, what would his title be?
>> Town manager.
>> Okay. Um, Jim was uh
Jim has previously been the town
administ or town temporary town manager
for Windham twice, not once, but twice.
So, Scott and I met with him after uh
Eric's resignation before our last
meeting. So, this meeting is really for
Ann, Scott, and Carol to ask any
questions that you guys would like of
Jim so that you can get to know him and
so that we can potentially
>> fill our position if it's with Jim.
That's great. So, you guys are up. Who'd
like to go first?
>> Jim, I'm Scott Persan.
Nice to meet you. Where do you
>> Hi, Scott.
>> Where do you live?
>> I live in Windam in Willamantic.
Actually, I've been here since I got the
job in April of 2015.
>> I moved out from the Danbury area.
>> Can you give us a little bit of your
background, please?
>> Sure. Um, well, how far you want to go
back? So, I um I practiced law for a
number of years in New York. I moved to
Connecticut in 1994.
Um,
and then over that time, I just never
really enjoyed the practice of law.
Plus, I was living in Connecticut and
not licensed in Connecticut because I
had been in New York when I received my
license. Uh, and so in 2000, if I can go
back, speed it up a little bit, um, I
took a job in economic development for
what was called then the, um, Husatonic
Valley Economic Development Partnership,
which was the regional economic
development group for Greater Danbury.
Covered the 10 towns around Greater
Danbury. Um shortly thereafter I went to
work for the city of Danbury uh for um
Mark Boutton. Um actually Gene Iraq may
have been may have been the mayor and
then Mark Boutton after that um economic
development director for the city.
And then after oh about five or six
years I went to work for a private
developer in Danbury. And I did that for
about nine years, eight or nine years
and really wanted to get back into
economic development. And my kids had
kind of all grown up and gone away. I
had been gotten divorced in '05 and um
the Windham opportunity came up and I
just kind of saw a lot of similarities
with that with that town and Danbury
um
State College, former Miltown, kind of a
historic downtown, etc. A lot of retail.
And so I took that job and that was um
April 1st of 2015
and I just recently finished up there in
um let's say August of of this year
after 10 and a half years.
And
>> I just as an aside, I've taught at
Western Connecticut State and um and
Eastern either polyai or law or you know
legal studies and things like that at
different times over the past 30 years.
>> Okay. And how many times have you served
as interim manager or town administrator
and in what towns, please?
twice in Windham. In uh 2017, two years
after I was there, a gentleman named
Neil Beats um who was the town manager
for 7 years decided to leave. And in the
interim, it was a period of 3 months. Um
I was asked to serve in that capacity by
the town council and I did so for about
3 months. And then again last August,
um mid August or so when Jim Rivers went
to NECOG, I uh was asked again and I did
so until around February 1st when they
hired the current town manager.
>> How long was that, Jim? That last stro
about five or six months.
Five months, I think.
And do you have any interest in serving
as town administrator for any towns
coming out of Are you I'm assuming
you're retired right now?
>> Yeah, I took kind of an early
retirement, but you know, it was it was
a package that was offered. The new town
manager has kind of shaken things up and
they eliminated uh the two positions in
the economic and community development
department.
he's just went in a completely different
direction. And um and so I decided to
take the early retirement package rather
than take this other position that he
had had created. And um so I haven't
been pursuing town administrator or town
manager or city manager positions. Um
again, this just happened in August. I
was just kind of um looking at
consulting opportunities in and around
uh maybe the area of economic
development but I kind of with the sick
time that I had acrewed and with the
severance package I was just kind of
waiting and this kind of came out out of
nowhere really and it was and it's close
by and it's certainly you know I've
familiar with the town to the extent
that I drive through and past and uh
I've actually met Eric on a Hop
uh trail um meeting that that we hosted
in in uh Windham Town Hall a few years
ago. So uh and I know uh Dennis um
O'Brien for many years. Uh so I thought
it might might be a good opportunity to
explore.
>> So you would be interested in exploring
it on a permanent basis or you're just
looking right now for interim positions?
Well, interim was was what was proposed
to me. So, that's what I'm I'm I'm
looking to explore. I I didn't really
have a plan. And to be to be quite
honest, you know, in Windom, they had
offered me the position um
the second time, not the first time. I
had just started in Windham and it
really wasn't something I wanted. You
know, my background was economic and
community development. Um, I think they
saw my management skills that would be
helpful uh in the town as far as working
with people, working with departments,
kind of a respect that I had built up
over over the years. And uh they thought
that was a good fit, but for a permanent
position, it's it's not something I I
think. And at this point, I think, you
know, when they had me early retire, I
was only about maybe two years away from
retirement. um which was kind of
unfortunate that they, you know, had uh
eliminated the department then anyway.
So, you know, I
for for for you folks and for me, I
think you'd probably be looking for
something more long-term uh as a
permanent town administrator.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> Any other questions?
Okay. Um,
just as a an aside, where did you grow
up?
>> I grew up in Yoners, New York.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Question.
>> Yeah. Lived there and lived in Mount
Kisco for a while and then moved to
Brookfield, Connecticut in 1994.
>> Living on the lake.
>> I'm sorry.
>> You're living on the lake.
I did. I lived in uh in Candlewood
Shores. Yeah. Not on the lake, but up
the hill from the lake.
>> Okay. Um
All right. Anybody else have any
questions?
>> Um just the one question. So this would
be something you would be okay with a
three to six month duration if this was
a temporary.
>> Absolutely. Yeah.
>> Okay. And do you have any question?
Um,
I think a lot of the questions I had
have been answered. Um, I guess just
that you're able feel competent to cover
all the different areas that the town
administrator would do. Um, watching the
different projects we have going on in
town with the bridges and various other
construction projects and the grants and
managing the town hall and all that.
>> Yeah, I think so. Well, and I, you know,
I I think it it's a different, but it
doesn't make it doesn't make it less
easy. It doesn't make it easier or less
complicated. Windham's a bigger town.
There are obviously more departments,
uh, more personnel, but I think when
it's a smaller town and it's a little
leaner, um, it's going to require me to
step up in in certain different areas
that I wouldn't have had to do in
Windham, but it sounds like you have a
good team over there and, um, I'm really
happy to work with that team. I
understand there there either was or
will be a new public works person um
>> coming on and that's kind of the
backbone of of a lot of the work that's
that's done in town. And having said
that um yeah I and as far as grant
administration goes at my department
used to handle grants and grant
administration uh for the town.
>> Great. Okay. Thank you.
>> May we we may even find another one for
you. Who knows?
>> Oh, good. Yeah.
>> Anybody else?
>> Okay,
>> Jim, thank you very much. Appreciate it.
>> Yeah, thanks for coming in spur of the
moment. Thank you.
>> Yeah, I I apologize about the time. I
was kind of sitting waiting for a call
and I figured selectment meeting you it
would be more towards the evening, but
uh I'm glad we connected.
>> Yeah.
>> Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you.
>> Thank you.
>> Great. Thank you.
So, you know, I mean, the biggest issue
that we face as a board is that Eric's
time is dwindling. So, we have basically
three weeks uh till he is completely out
of the town hall. So, it's important for
us to get somebody in place as soon as
possible to assist. And um he left. I
was going to I was going to ask him.
It's fine. He left. No, I mean I asked
the question. It says you comfortable
with a three to six month duration.
That's what I'm thinking if we if we
decide to go with him.
>> Um,
you know, the issue is really
documenting the minutia of what Eric
does. I mean, and I did ask him that at
the last meeting because it's really
going to be important that
we don't leave whoever we put in that
role on a permanent basis to have to
rebuild everything again. We will what
I'd like to see next week out of Eric
and this is what I would request is he
start putting together almost a journal
like transfer station. This is the
contract we have. This is the contact we
have. These are the employees that we
have. you know, each department, break
it down, you know, just kind of do a
data dump in the document for whoever
comes in and then that person comes in
on November 3rd, if there's any gaps in
that document, that way we can address
it then instead of trying to create it
while that person's there, if we can get
ahead of the game this week, get
something together on paper.
>> Yeah. And no problem. And what I'd like
to see for the interim and to have a
crossover is be able to have that view
all those documents continue to add to
>> continue to add.
>> That way you have two weeks of a working
document that you can keep adding data
to.
>> But I'd like to have something to start
with on day one. So, if I if I don't
know what he's got going on this week,
but I would definitely like to put
together just a word document about, you
know,
how each
>> department is handled or each, you know,
part of the town is handled.
>> No problem.
>> Context for the rail trail like with the
E, you know, just all that stuff. You
know,
>> I I think it's really important on that.
I mean, there's going to be a lot
to Eric's departure. So, someone like
Jim
you know, honestly, he just has a a a
reasonable presence for what we're going
to have to deal with internally, and I
just feel comfortable with him as as an
individual on a temporary basis. So, I'd
like to get him as pointed as soon as
possible so we could sit there and
execute.
>> We need to make a motion on this.
>> Yeah, we do. I just want him to talk.
>> Yeah, I'd like to because this really it
was okay to do the interview, but we
didn't warn this properly. So, if
there's going to be a motion, I just
think that we should call another
meeting for Wednesday via Zoom and
that's where we can vote so that we
don't have an illegal vote at a meeting.
>> That's fine.
>> But then, you know what? If if if that's
Carol's concern, I don't have any
problem with that either because it's
not going to impact our timeline.
>> We can do a verbal with Jim and say, I
mean, I don't know how everybody feels.
Does does is do we have enough yes votes
to hire Jim or do we not? Because is it
even worth calling the meeting if the
votes aren't there to hire Jim then?
>> I think we do.
I mean, is anyone negative?
And if you're negative, just say you're
negative. It doesn't matter. You don't
want to do it. It's fine. You want to
look for somebody else, that's fine. I'm
I am not negative.
>> But the problem is we have to make up a
decision. Like I said last week, we have
to have a decision in place by
Wednesday.
>> Correct. Right. And there was another
alternative. I I saw an email from a
langu cart and and that individual one
individual is is working in Fairfield
right now. So he's not available.
>> You know, it's not like
>> but it's not like he might not be
available in two months and he might be
interest.
I'm okay with that. Correct. So like
>> So Jeff, are you a positive?
>> Yeah. I I mean right now with with the
with the positions we're in, I I really
don't feel
>> Are you too? I'm I just don't think we
should make anything say anything.
>> We're not This is not a vote. This is
not a vote.
>> Okay. So, we're going to have a meeting
on Wednesday where we'll vote because I
I mean that this is just fine. And so,
>> but so for but in the meantime, we need
to direct Eric to start.
>> What about you?
>> This document,
are you on board with this?
>> You're on.
>> Yes, I am.
>> Okay. All right. So, what we're going to
do is I will get uh Kate to post a
meeting today for Wednesday via Zoom
that
>> make it like noon 12 o'clock that will
cover us time frame and
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um
>> and I can I can dial in at lunch and I'm
going to be have to work on
>> go. See you. Thank you. Bye everyone.
>> So yeah, that would that would work with
my time schedule. Scott, does noon
>> Does noon Wednesday work for you?
>> I should Wednesday at noon.
>> Does noon Wednesday?
>> What time?
>> Noon. We could do it at lunchtime on
Wednesday.
>> All right.
>> Okay.
>> All right. Does that work with you? Does
that work for you, Ann? 12 o'clock on
Wednesday.
>> Noon on Wednesday should be good. Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> It's going to be Zoom, you said, right?
>> Yes. By Zoom.
>> Yeah.
>> I can't come here. I'll be at work.
>> Okay.
>> Right.
>> Uh, so there will be no action taken in
this meeting. So, we're going to move on
to item four, public speak. Scott say,
>> Yeah. Yeah, I just want to say the the
person that Elaine sent to you, I I ran
into somebody at the dump on Saturday
who is a recently retired town manager.
He doesn't want the position. He
forwarded that name. I don't think he's
looking for a long term. But if things
don't work out with Jim or I don't think
he's even looking for an interimm. He's
the one who got us in connected with the
other person. Um but if things don't
work out, um we we should talk to this
guy. Uh he's, you know, knowledgeable.
He was spent years as a town manager in
Berlin. Um, and he's living in Andover,
which is great. So,
>> well, well, Scott, if he's if he's a we
should definitely for the search
committee, for the interview committee,
we should definitely reach out to him.
>> Oh, absolutely. Yeah, he's he'd be
great. I think I he was very warm and
personable. I never met him before. Um,
and I I got in touch. He's interested in
getting on the EDC. That's so that's why
I got in touch with with Elaine. Um, but
you know, if if he knows, you know, he's
probably plugged into that network of of
town managers, too, town administrators.
So, just just worth keeping his name.
And I I'll I'll I'll send you guys a his
name's Arsha something. J I can't
remember.
>> J Walker.
>> Jay Walker. That's him.
>> Yeah. But Scott was
>> I think I worked with his wife.
>> Okay. Manchester
>> just temporary.
>> That's why I was confused.
>> Um, can I the the gentleman that is
working currently in Fairfield, does he
live in this area?
>> I don't know. He was a connection from
Arosha. Um,
>> but I don't know anything about him.
I've never talked to him.
>> He's looking for a permanent or he's
looking for the temporary thing
eventually.
Scott,
>> again, I A Rosha said, "I'm I'm not
interested in the interim." Um, and I
don't think he's definitely not
interested in the permanent, but this
friend of mine, I think, might be.
That's that's a connection that we had.
>> Um, Scott, if you could do a favor to
the board, could you send a Roshia's
cell phone number so that we can reach
out and get him uh plugged into trying
to assist with the search committee and
get an understanding of we might be able
to do as a group. So,
>> uh, yeah, I I'll check with him first
before I share his cell phone, but I I
assume he'll be be okay with that.
>> Yeah. Another thing I'd like to add, is
there any way we can get this this job
opening out as as soon as possible? Can
we get a post?
>> Well, because because we're not on a
legal meeting, let's put that on the
agenda for when?
>> Let's put on the agenda for when because
I would like to get that listed as soon
as possible.
>> Sure.
>> Okay.
>> That's just that's just discussion.
We're not making a motion.
>> No problem. Um, all right, Scott, are
you complete?
>> I'm done. Thank you.
>> All right.
>> So, um I'll make a motion to adjurnn.
>> Second.
>> All right. All those in favor? I
>> I made an illegal vote.
>> So, let's go.
>> All right. Thank you very much.
>> Thank you.
>> Where is this?